# FW_invert_biomass_allometry

Pipeline to assign body length-dry biomass allometry equations and other functional traits to a taxonomic name based on taxonomic hierarchy in freshwater invertebrates. However, the name-matching pipeline can technically be used for any taxonomic group.

## scripts: functions

This folder contains all the scripts used to create access and analyse the database. The different folders hold scripts for different tasks. The numbers of the folders and the numbers of the scripts within the folders indicate in which order the scripts should be run.

There are two scripts that hold general functions:

+ special_names.R : Function to generate the so-called *special names* that the database uses.

+ 02_function_plotting_theme.R : Customised ggplot2 plotting function

> 01_data_cleaning

The data cleaning folder holds scripts that are used to clean the raw data that was compiled in excel files. The raw data files are then saved as .rds files and stored in the *database* folder.

> 02_create_database

There are four scripts in this folder. The first two are scripts that detect whether the correct packages are installed and describe the taxonomic distance between taxonomic ranks like families and genera:

+ 01_version_package_warnings.R

+ 02_taxon_matrix_function.R

Then, there is a script that used to create the higher-level taxonomic graphs. This works by first harmonising all taxon names in the equation database to three different taxonomic backbones: COL, GBIF and ITIS. Once the names are harmonised, we extract either the family or order of each taxon name. Descendent taxa from all unique families and orders are then extracted and compiled into igraph objects that describe how the different taxon names i.e. species, genera, families, orders etc. relate to each other. These igraph objects are exported as .rds files and stored in the *database* folder.

+ 03_create_taxon_database

The final script is used to add biogeographical realm, major habitat type and ecoregion information to each equation in the database using the latitude and longitude data associated with each equation and Abell et al.'s (2008) global ecoregion map.

+ 04_set_freshwater_ecoregion_data.R

> 03_use_database

This folder contains a script with functions that are written to access the database and find appropriate equations for a set of use-defined taxon names.

+ 01_search_database_ver2.R

> 04_test_method

The script in this folder contains a set of idealised examples that are designed to cover the various permutations of inputs that different users might define. Examples are run through the search functions and the results are checked.

+ 01_test_method.R

> 05_accuracy_analysis

This folder contains the script where we test the accuracy of our method for matching names to appropriate equations. Specifically, we compare the biomass generated by selecting equations in the database to actual measured biomass that we compiled from the literature along with biomass generated from equations selected by experts.

+ 01_accuracy_test_script.R

> 06_database_characteristics

These scripts are used to examine the taxonomic and geographical coverage of the equations in our database.

## Development

There's a [devcontainer](https://containers.dev/) setup included. If you use
VSC you should be prompted to open the project in a container automatically.